core-units/bug-bounty.md, before:

# Bug Bounty Program

[Immunefi Security Core Unit (ISCU)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP39c2SP24#bug-bounty-program) helps run the [bug bounty program](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP64). The program aims to attract whitehat hackers who find vulnerabilities and responsibly disclose them, so they are fixed before they can be exploited. Additionally, this provides an incentivized opportunity for disclosure of vulnerabilities instead of exploitation for blackhat hackers. Core Units need to diligently update ISCU on which assets are in-scope. ISCU will endeavour to make severity classification as objective as possible.

## Process

1. Whitehats create bug reports in the [Immunefi Dashboard](https://bugs.immunefi.com).
2. Immunefi Services Triaging does an initial evaluation to determine whether the report is valid.
3. ISCU is brought in to escalate bugs to the associated Maker Core Unit.
4. The associated Maker Core Unit is tasked with determining whether the report is a true vulnerability and confirm severity.
5. Optionally, for smart contract vulnerabilities, ChainSecurity can be brought in to help research bug reports.
6. If confirmed valid, ISCU will orchestrate payout of the bounty.
7. A postmortem will be published.

## Tips

- Always use the [Immunefi Dashboard](https://bugs.immunefi.com) for communications.
- Respond within 48 hours for `Critical` and `High` severity bug reports. A simple confirmation that someone is looking at the report will suffice.
- Try to close `medium/low` severity in 7 days and `high/critical` severity in 14 days.
- If you know that you will need more time, ask for it. Hackers are generally understanding, but appreciate advanced notice.
- Don't try to negotiate severity or bounty amount with the hacker. Coordinate with ISCU. :handshake: 
- If anything needs to be changed with the bug bounty program, let us know. Provide feedback. We're here to make the process work.

Commit message:

Describe how MIP64 works together with the Immunefi hosted bug bounty program

core-units/bug-bounty.md, after:

# Bug Bounty Program

[Immunefi Security Core Unit (ISCU)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP39c2SP24#bug-bounty-program) helps run the [bug bounty program](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP64). The program aims to attract whitehat hackers who find vulnerabilities and responsibly disclose them, so they are fixed before they can be exploited. Additionally, this provides an incentivized opportunity for disclosure of vulnerabilities instead of exploitation for blackhat hackers. Core Units need to diligently update ISCU on which assets are in-scope. ISCU will endeavour to make severity classification as objective as possible.

Specification of which assets are in-scope is accomplished by two separate documents. [MIP64](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP64) provides the broad outlines of the program while the [Immunefi hosted document](https://immunefi.com/bounty/makerdao/) fills in the details. If there is a conflict between these two documents then MIP64 takes precedence because MIP64 was voted on by MKR holders. MIP64 provides for areas of customization that are exercised to narrow and widen the scope of the [Immunefi hosted bug bounty program](https://immunefi.com/bounty/makerdao/).

## Process

1. Whitehats create bug reports in the [Immunefi Dashboard](https://bugs.immunefi.com).
2. Immunefi Services Triaging does an initial evaluation to determine whether the report is valid.
3. ISCU is brought in to escalate bugs to the associated Maker Core Unit.
4. The associated Maker Core Unit is tasked with determining whether the report is a true vulnerability and confirm severity.
5. Optionally, for smart contract vulnerabilities, ChainSecurity can be brought in to help research bug reports.
6. If confirmed valid, ISCU will orchestrate payout of the bounty.
7. A postmortem will be published.

## Tips

- Always use the [Immunefi Dashboard](https://bugs.immunefi.com) for communications.
- Respond within 48 hours for `Critical` and `High` severity bug reports. A simple confirmation that someone is looking at the report will suffice.
- Try to close `medium/low` severity in 7 days and `high/critical` severity in 14 days.
- If you know that you will need more time, ask for it. Hackers are generally understanding, but appreciate advanced notice.
- Don't try to negotiate severity or bounty amount with the hacker. Coordinate with ISCU. :handshake: 
- If anything needs to be changed with the bug bounty program, let us know. Provide feedback. We're here to make the process work.
