endgame/constitutional-delegates.md, before:

# Consitutional Delegates

{% hint style="warning" %}
This documentation is work-in-progress, and only contains the bare minimum information required to allow Constitutional Delegates to onboard successfully.
{% endhint %}

## Onboarding Process

### 1. Create Two Delegate Contracts

These should be setup using the existing MakerDAO delegate contract system.  

Two new contracts should be created, rather than existing contracts being reused.  

### 2. Author Metadata

A set of templates can be found at in the [governance github repo](https://github.com/makerdao/community/tree/master/governance/delegates/template).  

Create two new folders in the repository inside the delegates folder, one for each of the new delegate contracts. Select a CVC strategy to follow for each contract.

Replace each avatar with an image of your choice.

Fill in the delegate profile for each contract. The delegate-specific information should be the same across each profile. The CVC strategy implementation section should differ for each profile.  The CVC section will be sourced from the CVC in question, and added to the document by the Arbitration Facilitators. 

Leave the metrics files unchanged from the template.

If you are unfamiliar with github, you may provide the required documents directly to the Arbitration facilitators who will submit them on your behalf.

### 3. Message Submission

Post the required CVC Submission messages publicly on the Maker forum using the following format defined in the Arbitration Scope.

This is a set of two messages, one for each delegation contract, that must be signed by the address controlling each delegate contract.

Commit message:

Update usage of avatars for CVCs.

endgame/constitutional-delegates.md, after:

# Consitutional Delegates

{% hint style="warning" %}
This documentation is work-in-progress, and only contains the bare minimum information required to allow Constitutional Delegates to onboard successfully.
{% endhint %}

## Onboarding Process

### 1. Create Two Delegate Contracts

These should be setup using the existing MakerDAO delegate contract system.  

Two new contracts should be created, rather than existing contracts being reused.  

### 2. Author Metadata

A set of templates can be found at in the [governance github repo](https://github.com/makerdao/community/tree/master/governance/delegates/template).  

Create two new folders in the repository inside the delegates folder, one for each of the new delegate contracts. Select a CVC strategy to follow for each contract.

Leave the avatars unchanged. These will be updated to use a picture referring to the CVC by the Arbitration facilitators.

Fill in the delegate profile for each contract. The delegate-specific information should be the same across each profile. The CVC strategy implementation section should differ for each profile.  The CVC section will be sourced from the CVC in question, and added to the document by the Arbitration Facilitators. 

Leave the metrics files unchanged from the template.

If you are unfamiliar with github, you may provide the required documents directly to the Arbitration facilitators who will submit them on your behalf.

### 3. Message Submission

Post the required CVC Submission messages publicly on the Maker forum using the following format defined in the Arbitration Scope.

This is a set of two messages, one for each delegation contract, that must be signed by the address controlling each delegate contract.
