parameter-index/surplus-auction/param-surplus-lot-size.md, before:

# Surplus Auction Lot Size

>**Alias:** N/A  
>**Parameter Name:** `bump`  
>**Containing contract:** `MCD_VOW`  
>**Scope:** System  
>**Technical Docs:** [Vow Detailed Documentation](https://docs.makerdao.com/smart-contract-modules/system-stabilizer-module/vow-detailed-documentation)  

## Description
The Surplus Auction Lot Size or `bump` parameter controls the amount of DAI that is auctioned off in each surplus auction.

Surplus auctions can be triggered when:  

_Surplus DAI > [Maximum System Surplus](../core/param-system-surplus-buffer) (`hump`) + Surplus Auction Lot Size (`bump`)_

{% hint style="info" %} 

**Example**

_Maximum System Surplus_ = 50 million DAI   
_Surplus Auction Lot Size_ = 10,000 DAI  

1. The current System Surplus reaches 50 million DAI.
2. Keeper A attempts to trigger a Surplus Auction, but the transaction fails.
3. The current System Surplus reaches 50,010,000 DAI.
4. Keeper A successfully triggers a Surplus Auction for 10,000 DAI.

{% endhint %}

## Purpose

The Surplus Auction Lot Size parameter allows Maker Governance to tune the frequency and accessibility of surplus auctions in order to achieve better auction efficiency.

## Trade-offs

Increasing the Surplus Auction Lot Size will result in fewer auctions - meaning more competition between keepers in each auction and increased gas efficiency. However, a larger Surplus Auction Lot Size may make the capital requirement prohibitive for some keepers, reducing the number of individuals that are able to bid.

Reducing the Surplus Auction Lot Size will result in a greater number of auctions. These auctions will require lower amounts of MKR to participate, allowing more keepers to take part. However, a higher number of auctions leads to a higher fixed cost to bid relative to the potential profit, which may decrease participation. If auctions are not competitive, then the price obtained for the auctioned DAI may be below-market rates.

## Changes
Adjusting the Surplus Auction Lot Size parameter is a manual process that requires an executive vote. Changes to the Surplus Auction Lot Size are subject to the [GSM Pause Delay](../core/param-gsm-pause-delay.md).

In general the goal when tweaking this parameter is to increase keeper participation in surplus auctions.

**Why increase this parameter?**

The main reason for Maker Governance to increase the Surplus Auction Lot Size is to reduce the overall number of surplus auctions. Fewer auctions reduces the gas cost for keepers relative to their potential profit, making participation more attractive to keepers.

**Why decrease this parameter?**

The main reason for Maker Governance to decrease the Surplus Auction Lot Size is to reduce the capital requirement for auction participation, potentially increasing the number of keepers able to participate.
 
 ## Considerations
 
The Surplus Auction Lot Size must be greater than 0 DAI.

The gas cost to `kick` (trigger) a surplus auction is non-trivial. If the Surplus Auction Lot Size is too small, surplus auctions may not be triggered by any keeper because they are required to accept a fixed cost for an uncertain return.

>Page last reviewed: 2022-11-09  
>Next review due: 2023-11-09

Commit message:

update surplus lot size to Smart Burn Engine Lot Size

parameter-index/surplus-auction/param-surplus-lot-size.md, after:

# Smart Burn Engine Lot Size

>**Alias:** N/A  
>**Parameter Name:** `bump`  
>**Containing contract:** `MCD_VOW`  
>**Scope:** System  
>**Technical Docs:** [Vow Detailed Documentation](https://docs.makerdao.com/smart-contract-modules/system-stabilizer-module/vow-detailed-documentation)  

## Description
The Smart Burn Engine Lot Size or `bump` parameter controls the amount of DAI that is exchanged for MKR each time the Smart Burn Engine is triggered.

The Smart Burn Engine can be triggered when:  

_Surplus DAI > [Maximum System Surplus](../core/param-system-surplus-buffer) (`hump`) + Smart Burn Engine Lot Size (`bump`)_

{% hint style="info" %} 

**Example**

_Maximum System Surplus_ = 50 million DAI   
_Smart Burn Engine Lot Size_ = 10,000 DAI  

1. The current System Surplus reaches 50 million DAI.
2. Keeper A attempts to trigger the Smart Burn Engine, but the transaction fails.
3. The current System Surplus reaches 50,010,000 DAI.
4. Keeper A successfully triggers the Smart Burn Engine and exchanges 10,000 DAI for MKR.

{% endhint %}

## Purpose

The Smart Burn Engine Lot Size parameter allows Maker Governance to tune the frequency and accessibility of Smart Burn Engine actions in order to achieve better efficiency.

## Trade-offs

Increasing the Smart Burn Engine Lot Size will result in fewer auctions - leading to less overall gas expenditure. However, a larger Smart Burn Engine Lot Size may mean there is insufficient liquidity for the Smart Burn Engine to complete its planned actions.

Reducing the Smart Burn Engine Lot Size will result in a greater number of auctions. These events will occur more frequently. However, a higher number of events leads to a higher fixed cost as the protocol funds the Keeper Network that will reliably call these events.

## Changes
Adjusting the Smart Burn Engine Lot Size parameter is a manual process that requires an executive vote. Changes to the Smart Burn Engine Lot Size are subject to the [GSM Pause Delay](../core/param-gsm-pause-delay.md).

In general the goal when tweaking this parameter is to trade-off costs of running keepers against the liquidity available in the pool and the risk of sandwich attacks.

**Why increase this parameter?**

The main reason for Maker Governance to increase the Smart Burn Engine Lot Size is to reduce the overall number of actions. Fewer auctions reduces the gas cost for keepers as there are fewer transactions taking place. Since Maker funds the Keeper Network, this saves the protocol money in the long-term as there is less gas to subsidise.

**Why decrease this parameter?**

The main reason for Maker Governance to decrease the Smart Burn Engine Lot Size is if there is to reduce the required liquidity for each action. If the parameter is set too high, the slippage will be too high and the auction will not proceed.
 
 ## Considerations
 
The Smart Burn Engine Lot Size must be greater than 0 DAI.

As triggering the Smart Burn Engine is permissionless, incorrectly setting the Smart Burn Engine Lot Size may expose the Protocol to sandwich attacks.

>Page last reviewed: 2023-08-01  
>Next review due: 2024-08-01
