parameter-index/surplus-auction/param-min-bid-increase-flap.md, before:

# Minimum Bid Increase (Flap)

>**Alias:** 
>**Parameter Name:** `beg`  
>**Containing contract:** `Flap`  
>**Scope:** System  
>**Technical Docs:** [link](https://docs.makerdao.com/smart-contract-modules/system-stabilizer-module/flap-detailed-documentation)  

## Description
The `Surplus Lot Size` or '`bump`' parameter controls the amount of DAI that is auctioned off in each surplus auction.

Surplus auctions can be triggered when `Surplus DAI > System Surplus Buffer (hump) + Surplus Lot Size (bump)`. For example, if the Surplus Buffer is set to 50 million DAI, and the `Surplus Lot Size` is set to 10,000 DAI, the system surplus must exceed 50,010,000 DAI before a surplus auction can be triggered.

## Purpose

The `Surplus Lot Size` ensures that surplus auctions are a constant size which makes the system more predictable. It also allows Maker Governance to tune the frequency and accessibility of surplus auctions in order to acheive better prices.

## Trade-offs

Increasing the `Surplus Lot Size` will result in fewer auctions - meaning more competition between keepers in each auction and increased gas efficiency. However, a larger `Surplus Lot Size` may make the capital requirement prohibitive for some keepers, reducing the number of individuals that are able to bid.

Reducing the `Surplus Lot Size` will mean a greater number of auctions will occur. These auctions will require lower amounts of MKR to participate, allowing more keepers to take part. However, a higher number of auctions leads to a higher fixed cost to bid relative to the potential profit, potentially decreasing participation. If auctions are not competitive, then the price obtained for the auctioned DAI may be below-market rates.

## Changes
Adjusting the `Surplus Lot Size` parameter is a manual process that requires an executive vote. Changes to the `Surplus Lot Size` are subject to the GSM Pause Delay.

In general the goal when tweaking this parameter is to increase keeper participation in surplus auctions.

**Why increase Surplus Lot Size?**

The main reason for Maker Governance to increase the `Surplus Lot Size` is to reduce the overall number of surplus auctions. Fewer auctions reduces the gas cost for keepers relative to their potential profit, making particiation more attractive to keepers.

**Why decrease Surplus Lot Size?**

The main reason for Maker Governance to decrease the `Surplus Lot Size` is to reduce the captial requirement for auction participation, potentially increasing the number of keepers able to participate.
 
 ## Considerations
 
The `Surplus Lot Size` cannot be less than or equal to 0 DAI.

The gas cost to `kick` (trigger) a surplus auction is non-trivial. If the `Surplus Lot Size` is too low, surplus auctions may not be triggered by any keeper because they are required to accept a fixed cost for an uncertain return.

Commit message:

Fixed duplicate docs from other parameter.

parameter-index/surplus-auction/param-min-bid-increase-flap.md, after:

# Min Bid Increase (Flap)

>**Alias:**  
>**Parameter Name:** `beg`  
>**Containing Contract:** `Flap`  
>**Scope:** System  
>**Technical Docs:** [link](https://docs.makerdao.com/smart-contract-modules/system-stabilizer-module/flap-detailed-documentation)  


## Description
During surplus auctions, excess DAI within the system is auctioned off in fixed lots for MKR. In this process, keepers bid increasing amounts of MKR for a fixed amount of DAI. MKR received this way is burned by the Maker Protocol. 

New MKR bids must be higher than the current MKR bid by at least an amount determined by the `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` or `beg`.  The `Min Bid Increase (Flap)`  is given in terms of a minimum percentage increase on the current bid.

For example, if the `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` is set to 5% and the current bid is 10 MKR for 1000 DAI, the next bid must be at least 10.5 MKR for 1000 DAI.

In practice the `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` represents both:
* The maximum profit that keepers can make when bidding in Surplus Auctions. 
* The maximum slippage MakerDAO is willing to accept during auctions to ensure sufficient keeper participation. 

## Purpose
The `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` parameter allows Maker Governance to ensure that keepers are sufficiently incentivized to bid in surplus auctions.

## Trade-offs
A small `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` helps to increase the amount of MKR burned as bids will be closer to the market value of MKR. However, if it is too low, it can result in low keeper participation due to lack of perceived profit. If only a single keeper participates in an auction it can lead to significant losses for the Maker Protocol.

A large `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` ensures high keeper participation as there is an opportunity for a larger profit. It also helps to balance other costs to the keeper when making a bid, such as the effect of the price volatility of MKR over the duration of the auction, and the cost of gas when making a bid.

## Changes
Adjusting the `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` parameter is a manual process that requires an executive vote. Changes to the `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` are subject to the GSM Pause Delay.

**Why increase this parameter?**

This parameter should be increased to increase keeper participation in surplus auctions.

**Why decrease this parameter?**

This parameter should be decreased to increase auction efficiency i.e. winning bid price vs. market price of MKR.

## Considerations
The gas cost to `kick` (trigger) a surplus auction is non-trivial. If the `Min Bid Increase (Flap)` is too low, surplus auctions may not be triggered by any keeper because they are required to accept a fixed cost for an uncertain return.

"Front-running" may be an issue in surplus auctions.
