delegation/recognized-delegate-requirements.md, before:

# Recognized Delegate Requirements

## 1. Inform a Governance Facilitator of your intention to become a recognized delegate

Speak to one of the Governance Facilitators (currently @LongForWisdom and @prose11). The best way to get in contact is via the official MakerDAO discord or the official MakerDAO forum. Please do not use email.

## 2. Read and sign-up for the Delegates Code of Conduct

The canonical Code of Conduct is located [here](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/recognised-delegate-code-of-conduct/9384). Sign-up can be as fancy or not-fancy as you like. Some options include:

* Signing a message on-chain.
* Confirming that you have read and agreed to it within your delegate platform post.
* Uploading a copy of the CoC to IPFS along with a statement saying that you have signed on to it.

## 3. Fill in and post a Recognized Delegate Platform using the provided template

The canonical template is located [here](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/recognised-delegate-initial-template/8989). Deviation from the template is acceptable, but you should try to cover everything in the template. Contact details and Conflict of Interest disclosures are not optional (except where marked as such.)

This is a chance to lay out what you stand for as a delegate within MakerDAO. Make it as clear and unambiguous as possible what you stand for, and why. This is the lens through which MKR Holders will see you, and your actions. Try to make it attractive!

## 4. Participate in a ‘Meet your Delegate' meeting

The Governance Facilitators will schedule this in collaboration with you and will host and manage recording of the meeting. The meeting recording will be uploaded to the MakerDAO youtube. The recording can be removed in the future if you wish to cease being a Recognized Delegate.

## 5. Setup a delegate contract

This can be done using the official MakerDAO voting UI, using the [account](https://vote.makerdao.com/account?network=mainnet) page.

A guide on how to get your delegate contract verified on Etherscan can be found [here](https://dux.makerdao.network/Verifying-a-delegate-contract-on-Etherscan-df677c604ac94911ae071fedc6a98ed2). It is strongly recommended that you do this, as many MKR Holders will not be comfortable interacting with a unverified smart contract.

## 6. Make a Pull Request to the MakerDAO community GitHub for integration with the Voting Portal

An example of what is required can be found [here](https://github.com/makerdao/community/tree/master/governance/delegates/template). These files should be copied to a new folder such that the folder name matches the delegate contract address.

Recognized Delegates need to replace the profile.md and profile.jpg files. The metrics.md should be left as it is in the template, and will be updated by GovAlpha.

Other examples for existing delegates can be found in the delegates [folder](https://github.com/makerdao/community/tree/master/governance/delegates).

If you are completely unfamiliar with GitHub, the Governance Facilitators can help you with this process.

## 7. Be aware that vote participation and communication will be tracked

Participation tracking is currently done manually by GovAlpha, but will hopefully be automated in the future. Abstain votes count as valid votes for the purposes of poll participation.

Failing to vote on an executive is valid and should be done in an emergency situation, or a situation in which the delegate has fundamental disagreement with the contents. However, failing to vote for an executive does count against you as part of the participation tracking. This reflects the issues failing to pass an executive can have in the MakerDAO governance process.

Forum and community participation will also be tracked, specifically related to voting. Recognized Delegates are expected to communicate their reasoning for voting when they vote. This can be in whichever format delegates feel is most appropriate, but must be communicated publicly so that GovAlpha can update the delegate's metrics.

Updates to the participation metrics are manual and will be performed on a weekly basis.

Commit message:

Added Brian's guide to verifying a delegate contract.

delegation/recognized-delegate-requirements.md, after:

# Recognized Delegate Requirements

## 1. Inform a Governance Facilitator of your intention to become a recognized delegate

Speak to one of the Governance Facilitators (currently @LongForWisdom and @prose11). The best way to get in contact is via the official MakerDAO discord or the official MakerDAO forum. Please do not use email.

## 2. Read and sign-up for the Delegates Code of Conduct

The canonical Code of Conduct is located [here](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/recognised-delegate-code-of-conduct/9384). Sign-up can be as fancy or not-fancy as you like. Some options include:

* Signing a message on-chain.
* Confirming that you have read and agreed to it within your delegate platform post.
* Uploading a copy of the CoC to IPFS along with a statement saying that you have signed on to it.

## 3. Fill in and post a Recognized Delegate Platform using the provided template

The canonical template is located [here](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/recognised-delegate-initial-template/8989). Deviation from the template is acceptable, but you should try to cover everything in the template. Contact details and Conflict of Interest disclosures are not optional (except where marked as such.)

This is a chance to lay out what you stand for as a delegate within MakerDAO. Make it as clear and unambiguous as possible what you stand for, and why. This is the lens through which MKR Holders will see you, and your actions. Try to make it attractive!

## 4. Participate in a ‘Meet your Delegate' meeting

The Governance Facilitators will schedule this in collaboration with you and will host and manage recording of the meeting. The meeting recording will be uploaded to the MakerDAO youtube. The recording can be removed in the future if you wish to cease being a Recognized Delegate.

## 5. Setup a delegate contract

This can be done using the official MakerDAO voting UI, using the [account](https://vote.makerdao.com/account?network=mainnet) page.

There are two guides that explain how to get your delegate contract verified on Etherscan. They can be found [here](https://dux.makerdao.network/Verifying-a-delegate-contract-on-Etherscan-df677c604ac94911ae071fedc6a98ed2) and [here](https://github.com/brianmcmichael/makerdao-stuff/blob/master/VerifyVoteDelegate.md).

It is strongly recommended that delegates verify their contract, as many MKR Holders will not be comfortable interacting with a unverified smart contract.

## 6. Make a Pull Request to the MakerDAO community GitHub for integration with the Voting Portal

An example of what is required can be found [here](https://github.com/makerdao/community/tree/master/governance/delegates/template). These files should be copied to a new folder such that the folder name matches the delegate contract address.

Recognized Delegates need to replace the profile.md and profile.jpg files. The metrics.md should be left as it is in the template, and will be updated by GovAlpha.

Other examples for existing delegates can be found in the delegates [folder](https://github.com/makerdao/community/tree/master/governance/delegates).

If you are completely unfamiliar with GitHub, the Governance Facilitators can help you with this process.

## 7. Be aware that vote participation and communication will be tracked

Participation tracking is currently done manually by GovAlpha, but will hopefully be automated in the future. Abstain votes count as valid votes for the purposes of poll participation.

Failing to vote on an executive is valid and should be done in an emergency situation, or a situation in which the delegate has fundamental disagreement with the contents. However, failing to vote for an executive does count against you as part of the participation tracking. This reflects the issues failing to pass an executive can have in the MakerDAO governance process.

Forum and community participation will also be tracked, specifically related to voting. Recognized Delegates are expected to communicate their reasoning for voting when they vote. This can be in whichever format delegates feel is most appropriate, but must be communicated publicly so that GovAlpha can update the delegate's metrics.

Updates to the participation metrics are manual and will be performed on a weekly basis.
